% I4103 Brief Guide
% ENS Eric J. Mott
% March 19, 2017

Curriculum Basis: CNATRAINST 1542.156D

Airspeed Limits
===============

NATOPS 4.11/28.1:

- Max Sideward/Rearward Calibrated Airspeed

| Density Altitude (ft) | Sideward   | Rearward   |
|-----------------------|-----------:|-----------:|
| 0 to 1,000            | 25         | 15         |
| 1,000 to 2,000        | 20         | 15         |
| 2,000 to 4,000        | 15         | 15         |
| 4,000 to 6,000        | 10         | 10         |
| 6,000 to 10,000       | 5          | 5          |

- Maximum rate of climb/minimum rate of descent autorotational: 50 KIAS.
- Minimum IFR: 65 KIAS.
- Maximum FCS off:
  - ≤ 3000 lb gross weight: 130 KIAS.
    - Decrease by 3.5 KIAS/1000 ft above 3000 ft density altitude.
  - \> 3000 lb gross weight: 122 KIAS.
    - Decrease by 7 KIAS/1000 ft above 3000 ft density altitude.
- Maximum IFR or FCS on:
  - ≤ 3000 lb gross weight: 122 KIAS.
    - Decrease by 3.5 KIAS/1000 ft above 3000 ft density altitude.
  - \> 3000 lb gross weight: 122 KIAS.
    - Decrease by 7 KIAS/1000 ft above 3000 ft density altitude.

- Maximum with any combination of doors off: 110 KIAS.
- Maximum autorotational: 100 KIAS.
- Turbulence penetration: 80 KIAS.
- Maximum glide: 72 KIAS.

Standby Generator Minimum Airspeed
==================================

NATOPS 4.8/4.11/14.19/17.3.9:

- 65 KIAS (same as IFR min airspeed).
- Reason for IFR min airspeed due to standby generator cooling.

> Prolonged operation of the standby generator while it is the primary power
> supply to the essential No. 1 bus is prohibited at speeds below 65 KIAS.

> Prolonged operations at airspeeds below 65 knots can damage the standby
> generator.

Altimeter Error
===============

NATOPS 2.18.3, AIM 7-2-3:

- Altimeter error with current barometric pressure set should not exceed 75 feet
  from known field elevation.

AIM 7-2-3:

- A 1 in･Hg error in altimeter setting corresponds to 1000 ft of altitude.
- When going from high pressure to low pressure without updating your altimeter
  setting, you will be lower than indicated.
- Similarly, when going from high temperature to low temperature, you will be
  lower than indicated.

Attitude Gyro Malfunction (IMC)
===============================

NATOPS 14.31.7:

> If the directional or attitude gyro precesses or otherwise malfunctions, shift
> the scan to the standby compass (directional gyro malfunction) or to a partial
> panel scan utilizing other flight instruments to maintain heading, airspeed,
> and altitude (attitude gyro malfunction). If IMC, attempt to reestablish VMC.

FAR 91.183:

- Must report safety of flight issue to ATC.

Standby Battery
===============

NATOPS 2.9.11.2/7.6.2.13:

- 22.5 V, 1.8 A･h dry cell battery located just aft of baggage compartment.
- Minimum charge of 20 V checked during preflight for IMC operations.
- Pull the STDBY BAT CHARGE circuit breaker to check charge with engine running.
- Emergency power for pilot attitude indicator and its integrated lights.
- Full charge provides 1.5 hrs of operation.
- Main battery off or depleted with STBY ATT IND switch on will illuminate the
  STBY BATT ON light.

Turbulence Penetration
======================

NATOPS 4.11/10.5/17.3.7/17.7.4, AIM 7-1-28.c:

- Turbulence penetration airspeed: 80 KIAS.

> Because of turbulence, slower airspeeds than those recommended for maximum
> range may be necessary. Recommended turbulence penetration airspeed is 80 KIAS
> when encountering moderate turbulence to reduce airframe stress and provide
> for easier aircraft control. Particular attention should be given to
> navigation because the slow airspeed associated with helicopters will result
> in large drift angles.

> Heavy turbulence with sustained vertical gusts may exceed the authority of the
> servos to maintain the selected altitude. This will be evidenced by the pitch
> servo indicator remaining at full deflection while altitude is deviating.

- Do maintain constant attitude.  Allow altitude and airspeed to fluctuate.

- The most frequently encountered type of turbulence is orographic, or mountain,
  turbulence.

- Orographic turbulence is directly proportional to the wind velocity.

- Convective turbulence occurs from rising air created by surface heating.

- Convective turbulence can be anticipated when transitioning from bare areas to
  vegetation or snow covered areas. Convective turbulence seldom is severe
  enough to cause structural damage.

- Flight over convective turbulence should be carefully considered. The best
  method is to fly at the lowest altitude consistent with safety.
