% I4401 Brief Guide
% ENS Eric J. Mott
% May 1, 2017

Curriculum Basis: CNATRAINST 1542.156D

Acronyms and Short Hand Used in Document
----------------------------------------

- comm: communication.
- ESA: emergency safe altitude.
- IAF: initial approach fix.
- IAP: instrument approach procedure.
- MCA: minimum crossing altitude.
- MEA: minimum en route altitude.
- MOCA: minimum obstacle clearance altitude.
- MRA: minimum reception altitude.
- MSA: minimum safe altitude.
- nav: navigation.
- US: United States

Required Equipment for Night Flight
===================================

TH-57 NATOPS 4.21:

1. All instrument and circuit breaker panel lights.
2. All exterior lights.
3. Operable communication radio.
4. Attitude gyro.
5. radar altimeter.

Electrical System Malfunctions While IMC
========================================

FAR 91.187:

- Failures that affect required equipment for IMC flight:
  - main generator;
  - standby generator;
  - battery protection circuit.
- For either of the above:
  - if VMC, remain VMC;
  - squawk emergency if necessary (e.g. to deviate from going into IMC);
  - work NATOPS emergency procedures as applicable;
  - notify ATC.

- Shall report to ATC any malfunctions of navigational, approach, or comm
  equipment occurring in flight.
- Report shall include:
  1. aircraft identification;
  2. equipment affected;
  3. degree to which IFR operations are impaired;
  4. nature and extent of assistance desired.

- Know what powers what in event of failures:
  - Standby generator failure or main battery failure:
    - As long as the main generator is working, no effect.
  - Main generator failure:
    - Standby generator powers the Essential-1 bus;
    - Main battery powers the Essential-2 bus;
    - Non-essential bus offline with Normal/Recover switch set to Normal;
      - Setting the switch to Recover will power this bus by the main battery.
  - Main generator failure and standby generator failure:
    - Main battery powers the Essential-1 and Essential-2 buses;
      - The Non-essential bus will also be powered with the Normal/Recover
        switch set to Recover.
  - Main generator failure, standby generator failure, and main battery failure:
    - Standby battery will power the pilot side attitude indicator only.


Flight Control Malfunctions While IMC
=====================================

- Failures that affect required equipment for IMC flight:
  - Force trim;
  - MINISTAB pitch and roll.
- For either of the above:
  - if VMC, remain VMC;
  - squawk emergency if necessary (e.g. to deviate from going into IMC);
  - work NATOPS emergency procedures as applicable;
  - notify ATC.


En-Route/Feeder Routes
======================

AIM 5-4-6:

- feeder route:
  - provides transition from en route structure to appropriate IAF.
  - When cleared for the approach, the published off airway (feeder) routes that
    lead from the en route structure to the IAF **are** part of the approach
    clearance.
  - Unless otherwise instructed, once on the feeder route, the pilot may descent
    to the published altitude.

Minimum Safe Altitudes/Emergency Safe Altitudes
===============================================

Pilot Controller Glossary; GP:

- MSA:
  - used for emergency purposes and published on IAPs.
  - at least 1000 ft of obstacle clearance within a 25 mile radius of the
    nav facility, waypoint, or airport reference point used as the MSA center.
  - does not ensure acceptable navigation signal coverage.

- ESA:
  - used for emergency purposes, normally published only in military IAPs.
  - at least 1000' obstacle clearance in non-mountainous areas.
  - at least 2000' obstacle clearance in mountainous areas.
  - within 100 mile radius of nav facility or waypoint used as the ESA center.

MOCA/MCA/MRA
============

Pilot Controller Glossary; GP:

- MCA: lowest altitude at certain fixes at which an aircraft must cross when
  going from a lower to a higher MEA.

- MOCA: lowest altitude which ensures obstacle clearance for entire route
  segment and acceptable navigation coverage within 22 NM of a VOR.

- MRA: minimum altitude at which an intersection can be determined.
  - Note: this is usually based on not having DME capability.

DD 175 and DD 175-1
===================

DD-175
------

- GP Chapter 4.

CNAF M-3710.7 4.5:

- A flight plan appropriate for the intended operation shall be submitted to the
  local ATC facility for all flights of naval aircraft except the following:
  1. Flights of operational necessity.
  2. CNATRA student training flights within authorized training areas.
- A daily schedule containing an approved stereo (ARTCC computer stored)/canned
  flight plan code may be used in lieu of a DD-175 for other than local flights.
- For VFR flights within the local flying area, the term “local” may be entered
  as route of flight.
- FAA form 7233-1, may be filed in lieu of a DD-175 at US airfields where a
  military base operations is unavailable.
  - Note: DUAT shall not be used to file a flight plan to military destinations.
- Except when a daily flight schedule is used in lieu of a flight plan form, the
  pilots in command/formation leaders shall submit a flight plan for their
  flight (including remote filing via the Flight Weather Briefer (FWB) system).
  For multi-piloted aircraft, the PIC/formation leader may choose to delegate
  this responsibility to a NATOPS qualified pilot/NFO. Regardless, the
  PIC/formation leader is responsible for compliance with:
  1. The flight has been properly authorized.
  2. Adequate flight planning data, including NOTAM service, was available for
     complete and accurate planning.
  3. The flight will be conducted in accordance with governing directives and
     adherence to criteria for fuel requirements and weather minimums.
  4. Each pilot in a formation flight has received the required flight route
     weather briefing.
  5. The PIC/each pilot in a formation flight possesses a valid instrument
     rating if any portion of the flight is to be conducted under IMC
     or in positive control areas or positive control route segments.
  6. Passengers have been properly briefed and manifested.
  7. Proper weight and balance forms, if applicable, have been filed.
  8. The PIC acknowledges responsibility for the safe and orderly conduct of the
     flight.

DD-175-1
--------

CNAF M-3710.7 4.8.3.2:

- Naval aviators shall request a DD-175-1 flight route weather brief from a DoD
  qualified forecaster whenever a DD-175 flight plan is filed.
- Valid for 3.0 hours past briefing/FWB delivery time or ETD plus one-half hour.
- Should request at least 1 hour prior to proposed brief time for sufficient
  preparation time.
- For IMC flights within a field’s defined local area covered by a canned local
  area/route weather brief, a CR may be used for filing a DD-175 IFR flight plan
  as allowed by local instruction
