% I4102 Brief Guide
% ENS Eric J. Mott
% March 17, 2017

Icing
=====

Reporting Types and Intensity
-----------------------------

Types (AIM 7-1-21; FIH C.17.b.(4)):

-   Glaze (clear): Glossy, clear or translucent ice formed by relatively slow
    freezing of large supercooled water droplets.

-   Rime: Rough, milky, opaque ice formed by instantaneous freezing of small
    supercooled water droplets.

-   Mixed: Simultaneous appearance or combination of rime and glaze (clear) ice
    characteristics.

Intensity (AIM 7-1-20; FIH C.17.b.(4)):

-   Trace: Ice becomes perceptible. Non-hazardous even without use of deicing/
    anti-icing unless encountered &gt; 1 hr.

-   Light: Ice becomes problematic if encountered &gt; 1 hr. Occasional use of
    deicing/anti-icing removes/prevents accumulation.

-   Moderate: Short encounters are problematic. Use of deicing/anti-icing or
    diversion is necessary.

-   Severe: Deicing/anti-icing fails to control the hazard. Immediate diversion
    is necessary.

CNAF
----

-   Flights shall be planned to circumvent areas of forecast atmospheric icing
    and thunderstorm conditions whenever practicable.

FAR
---

-   Takeoff prohibited with frost, ice, or snow adhering to rotor blade,
    windshield, stabilizing or control surface, power-plant installation,
    wing; or to an airspeed, altimeter, rate of climb, attitude system.

-   Takeoff prohibited anytime ice, frost, or snow is expected to adhere to
    aircraft unless:

    -   Pre-takeoff contamination check within 5 min of takeoff.

    -   Approved alternative procedure to ensure aircraft is free of frost, ice,
        or snow.

    -   Approved deicing/anti-icing program that complies with 121.629(c).

-   Helicopter flight prohibited under IFR into known or forecast icing
    conditions or VFR into known icing conditions unless certified and
    appropriately equipped for operations in icing conditions.
    AIM

    -   Pilot can expect icing when flying in visible precipitation between +2
        to -10 C.

    -   Takes but 1/2 inch of ice to reduce lifting power of some aircraft by
        50%.

Icing Emergency Procedure
-------------------------

Operation of the engine during icing conditions could result in ice formations
on the compressor front support. If ice were allowed to build up, airflow to the
engine would be affected and engine performance decreased. Every effort must be
made to remain clear of known icing conditions. The anti-ice system in this
helicopter is to be used as a preventative measure only. Once ice has
accumulated, the anti-ice system cannot be used as a corrective measure (will
not deice). Intentional flight in any known icing condition (&lt; 4 C in visible
moisture) is prohibited. For inadvertent flight in icing conditions, proceed as
follows:

Procedures:

1.  ENG ANTI-ICING - ON.

2.  PITOT HEAT switches - HEAT.

3.  -(C)- Alternate static source knob - As required.

4.  Descend or climb to a warmer temperature or vacate clouds/moisture.

If unable to get clear of icing conditions:

5.  Land as soon as possible.

Weather Watch (WW) / CNATRA Aviation Weather Watch (CAWW) / SIGMET (WS) /
Convective SIGMET (WST)/ AIRMET (WA)
================================================================================

Weather Watch (WW)
------------------

AIM (AIM 7-1-5.g.2):

-   Thunderstorm/tornado watches issued by Storm Prediction Center (SPC) in OK.

-   Thunderstorm/tornado warning issued by NWS Weather Forecasts Offices (WFOs).

-   Issued when conditions favor a severe thunderstorm (≥ 1 in hail and/or ≥ 50
    kt gusts).

-   Public severe thunderstorm and tornado watch notification messages were
    formerly known as the Severe Weather Watch Bulletins (WW). The NWS no longer
    uses that title or acronym for this product but retains WW in the product
    header for processing by weather data systems.

 CNAF (CNAF M-3710.7 4.8.4.5; NAVAIR 00-80T-112 27.2.3.1):

 -  Except for operational necessity, emergencies, and flights involving
    all-weather research projects or weather reconnaissance, pilots shall not
    file into or through areas for which the Storm Prediction Center has issued
    a WW unless one of the following exceptions apply:

     1. Storm development has not progressed as forecast. For air operations
        originating/terminating at Naval installations, local installation
        commanding officers and/or Wing Commanders may continue operations in
        areas under a WW based on a determination that storm development has not
        progressed as forecast for the planned route of flight. Normally, such
        determination should include verification by a DoD forecaster or a
        Flight Service Station (FSS). For Naval aviators contemplating flight
        operations from other DoD or commercial airfields, flight operations
        through WW are authorized only if storm development has not progressed
        as forecast for the planned route as verified by DoD forecasters or a
        Flight Service Station (FSS). In either situation:

         1. VFR filing is permitted if existing and forecast weather for the
            planned route permits such flights.

         2. IFR flight may be permitted if aircraft radar is installed and
            operative, thus permitting detection and avoidance of isolated
            thunderstorms.

         3. IFR flight is permissible in controlled airspace if VMC can be
            maintained, thus enabling aircraft to detect and avoid isolated
            thunderstorms.

     2. Performance characteristics of the aircraft permit an en route flight
        altitude above existing or developing severe storms.

 -  Note: It is not the intent to restrict flights within areas encompassed by
    or adjacent to a WW area unless storms have actually developed as forecast.

 CNATRA Aviation Weather Watch (CAWW)
 ------------------------------------

 CNATRA (CNATRAINST 3710.8g):

 -  Indicates any of the following:

    1.  Embedded thunderstorms;

    2.  Severe thunderstorms;

    3.  Tornadoes.

-  Issued when any of the above are within 100 miles of the station.

-  May be issued 2 hrs prior to field opening through field closing.

SIGMET (WS)
-----------

AIM (AIM 7-5-1.c):

-   Valid for 4 hrs (exception: tropical cyclones or volcanic ash, valid for 6
    hrs).

-   Issued for current or expected:

    1.  Severe icing not associated with thunderstorms;

    2.  Severe or extreme turbulence or clear air turbulence not associated with
        thunderstorms;

    3.  &lt; 3 SM visibility from widespread dust/sand storms;

    4.  Volcanic ash.
