% I4302 Brief Guide
% ENS Eric J. Mott
% April 19, 2017

Curriculum Basis: CNATRAINST 1542.156D

Acronyms and Short Hand Used in Document
----------------------------------------

- CAT: category
- COPTER: helicopter IAP
- DH: decision height
- FAC: final approach course
- FAF: final approach fix
- HAA: height above airport
- HAL: height above landing
- HAT: height above touchdown
- IAP: instrument approach procedure
- KIAS: knots indicated airspeed
- LOC: localizer
- MAP: missed approach point
- MDA: minimum descent altitude
- NAVAID: navigational aid
- NM: nautical mile
- SM: statute mile
- TACAN: tactical air navigation system
- VFR: visual flight rules
- VHF: very high frequency
- VIS: visibility
- VOR: VHF omnidirectional range

VOR Procedures
==============

ILS/Localizer Procedures
========================

Glide-slope Failure
===================

AIM 5-4-5.a.3(a):

- More than one navigational system separated by a slash indicates that more
  than one type of equipment must be used to execute the **final approach**.
- More than one navigational system separated by the word "or" indicates either
  type of equipment may be used to execute the final approach.
- Therefore, as an example, if the approach is titled "ILS or RNAV", should the
  glide-slope fail, you **are not** allowed to fly a localizer approach. An easy
  way to tell this is that LOC mins will not be published for the approach.
- However, as an example, if the approach is titled "ILS or LOC", should the
  glide-slope fail, you **are** allowed to fly a localizer approach.

AIM 1-1-9.j.2:

- If the glide-slope fails, the ILS reverts to a non-precision localizer
  approach.

Course Receiver Failure
=======================

AIM 1-1-9.j.2:

- If the localizer fails, the ILS approach is not authorized.

CAT II/III ILS
==============

AIM 1-1-9.i.1:

- CAT II:
  - DH: 100 ft,
  - RVR: 1200 ft.
- CAT IIIa:
  - No DH or DH < 100 ft,
  - RVR: >= 700 ft.
- CAT IIIb:
  - No DH or DH < 50 ft,
  - 150 ft =< RVR < 700 ft.
- CAT IIIc:
  - No DH,
  - No RVR.


Takeoff/Approach/Landing Minima
===============================

Takeoff Minima
--------------

CNAF_M 3710.7

- Standard instrument rating:
  - Published mins for non-precision approach available, but not less than 300
    ft ceiling and 1 SM VIS, or
  - Published mins for precision approach for the runway in use, but not less
    than 200 ft ceiling and 1/2 SM VIS or 2,400 ft RVR.

Approach Minima
---------------

CNAF_M 3710.7 5.3.5.1:

- Helicopters and tilt-rotor:
  - Reduce CAT A published VIS mins by one-half, but no lower than 1/4 SM unless
    otherwise noted on the IAP.
  - No ceiling reduction allowed.
  - For COPTER, no reduction of VIS or ceiling is allowed.

CNAF_M 3710.7 5.3.5.3:

- Single-pilot:
  - An IAP shall not be commenced if the reported weather is below published
    minimums for the type approach being conducted.
  - Absolute mins for helicopter/tilt-rotor is 200 ft ceiling/HAT, 1/4 SM VIS.

Landing Minima
--------------

CNAF_M 3710.7 5.3.5.4:

- Pilots shall not descend below the MDA or DH unless they have the runway
  environment in sight and in their judgment a safe landing can be executed,
  either straight-in or from a circling approach, as specified in their
  clearance.

Precision Minima
================

CNAF_M 3710.7 5.3.5.3:

- Single-pilot:
  - An IAP shall not be commenced if the reported weather is below published
    minimums for the type approach being conducted.
  - Absolute mins for helicopter/tilt-rotor is 200 ft ceiling/HAT, 1/4 SM VIS.

Straight-In/Circle-to-Land/Sidestep Minima
==========================================

AIM 5-4-5/5-4-20:

- Straight-in:
  - straight-in MDA provides 250 ft min obstacle clearance;
  - provided when FAC is within 30 degrees of runway alignment (15 degrees for
    GPS IAPs) and a normal descent can be made from the MDA or DH;
  - If either of the requirements above cannot be met, only circling minima will
    be provided.
- Circle-to-Land:
  - circling MDA provides 300 ft min of obstacle clearance;
  - MDA only applies to protected circling area, which is dependent on aircraft
    approach category. TH-57 at 90 KIAS is CAT A with a circling radius of 1.3
    NM up to an MDA of 7000 ft MSL.
- Sidestep:
  - may be provided when parallel runways are 1200 ft or less apart
  - minima will normally be higher for the side-step runway
  - pilots are expected to commence sidestep maneuver as soon as possible after
    the runway or runway environment is in sight.

Option Approach
===============

AIM 4-3-22; GP:

- Your options if tower says "cleared for the option" are:
  - missed approach (don't technically need clearance for this if on an IAP);
  - low approach;
  - touch-and-go;
  - stop-and-go;
  - full stop.

- Pilot should request this passing the FAF inbound on an IAP or in the downwind
  on a VFR traffic pattern.
- Procedure is mostly used for training as it gives the instructor "options."
- Procedure will only be done at fields with an operating control tower.

Lost Comms on NDZ Stereotype Flight Plans
=========================================

HAA/HAT/HAL
===========

Pilot Controller Glossary; GP:

- HAA: height of the MDA above the published airport elevation. Used for all
  circling approach minima.
- HAT: height of the DH or MDA above the highest runway elevation in the
  touchdown zone (first 3,000 feet of the runway). Used for all straight-in
  minima.
- HAL: height above a designated helicopter landing area. Used for COPTER
  minima.
