% I4301 Brief Guide
% ENS Eric J. Mott
% April 17, 2017

Curriculum Basis: CNATRAINST 1542.156D

Acronyms and Short Hand Used in Document
----------------------------------------

- DH: decision height
- FAF: final approach fix
- HAT: height above touchdown
- MAP: missed approach point
- MDA: minimum descent altitude
- SIGMET: significant meteorological information
- TACAN: tactical air navigation system
- VFR: visual flight rules

TACAN Procedures
================

NDB Procedures
==============

Copter Approach Procedures
==========================

Publications Carried on RI Flights
==================================

NDZ Stereotype Flight Plans
===========================

Altitude Restrictions When Cleared for the Approach
===================================================

Weather Requirements for RI Flights
===================================

RWOP 2.1/2.2/2.3:

- VFR day/night syllabus RI training flights: 1000-3.
- IFR, PIC shall strictly adhere to CNAF_M 3710.7.
- Wind limitations: 35 kts or gust 35 kts.
- NASWF ON-TOP WX BRIEF may be used to file a DD-175 or Pre-filed Flight Plan.
  However, the destination, and alternate (if applicable), must be listed on the
  NASWF ON-TOP WX BRIEF and must meet the weather requirements specified in
  CNAF_M 3710.7.
- Special instrument rating weather minimums shall not be used in TW-5 aircraft.
- Convective SIGMET penetration allowed if not progressing as forecast ("hatched
  out areas") or with CO/XO approval (day only), but must remain VMC.
  - If Convective SIGMET forms around operating aircraft, crews shall make a
    reasonable attempt to satisfy the conditions above. Without positive
    confirmation that those conditions are satisfied, crews are expected to
    cease training and exercise sound, conservative judgment in their decision
    to divert to an OLF, divert to another suitable airport, or return to KNDZ.

CNAF_M 3710.7 5.3.5:

- Instrument Approaches and Landing Minimums
  - Helicopters: visibility reduction by one-half of published mins allowed, but
    no lower than 1/4 SM.
  - COPTER approaches may not be reduced.
  - Single-pilot (student/IP flights are considered single pilot):
    - Approach shall not be conducted if reported weather is below mins.
    - Absolute mins for helicopters: 200 ft ceiling/HAT, 1/4 SM visibility.

Approach Brief
==============

TH-57 Instrument FTI 211:

1. Approach Name
2. Weather (current and mins for the approach)
3. FAF and Timing
4. MDA or DH
5. MAP and approach lighting system (if applicable)
6. Terminal Procedures

Cockpit/COMNAV Organization
===========================

- WRNTB "We Really Need To Brief":
  - W: weather, altimeter, and runway from ATIS information.
  - R: request approach with ATC.
  - N: navaids (TINTS)
    - T: tune;
    - I: identify;
    - N: needles;
    - T: twist;
    - S: select.
  - T: timing for approach (if applicable).
  - B: brief approach.

Required Equipment for Instrument Flight
========================================

TH-57 NATOPS 4.18:

1. Cyclic force trim system.
2. MINISTAB flight control system (pitch and roll).
3. Main generator.
4. Standby generator.
5. Battery protection circuit.
6. Instantaneous vertical speed indicator.
7. Two attitude indicators (one automatically powered by approved standby
   battery source in the event of power loss).
8. One operable communication system.
9. One operable navigation system appropriate to the routes to be flown.
10. Radar altimeter.
11. Other equipment as required by the operating rules.


CNAF_M 3710.7 5.3.2.1:

Pre-flight procedures will be established and monitored to assure that
communication, navigation, and identification equipments required for the flight
are operative at takeoff. Preflight/in-flight malfunctions of such equipment
shall be construed as adequate cause to cancel/ abort missions other than those
of operational necessity. The pilot shall ensure that ATC is advised of any
limitations of the pilot’s aircraft and equipment that will necessitate special
handling.

1. The pitot heater and all vacuum pressure or electrical sources for the pilot
   flight instruments must operate satisfactorily.
2. The aircraft shall be equipped with the following in proper operating
   condition:
  1. Airspeed indicator;
  2. Altimeter;
  3. Turn-and-slip indicator;
  4. Clock displaying hours, minutes, and seconds with a sweep-second pointer
     or digital readout;
  5. Attitude indicator;
  6. Magnetic compass with current calibration card;
  7. Heading indicator or gyrostabilized magnetic compass;
  8. Vertical speed indicator.
3. Aircraft shall be equipped with deicing or icing control equipment for
   sustained or continuous flight in known or forecast icing conditions.
4. Navigation lights must operate satisfactorily.
