% C4801 Brief Guide
% ENS Eric J. Mott
% March 21, 2017

Curriculum Basis: CNATRAINST 1542.156D

Dark Adaptation
===============

- Avoid bright light (especially white).
- Takes at least 30 minutes for eyes to become fully adapted.
- Can lose adaptation in
- Eyeball anatomy:
  - Cones sense color and are concentrated in the center of the retina (fovea);
  - Rods sense light in black and white and surround the fovea;
  - Cones lose effectiveness under low light, however rods are still effective.


Night Hover Scan
================

Night Visual Scan Techniques
============================

[FAA Helicopter Flying Handbook Chapter 13][1]:

- Off-center viewing is used to focus on objects with rods.
- Short regularly spaced eye movements in 10 degree sectors.
- Scan from left to right or right to left starting at the greatest distance at
  which an object can be perceived and move inward toward the aircraft.

[1]: https://www.faa.gov/regulations_policies/handbooks_manuals/aviation/helicopter_flying_handbook/media/hfh_ch13.pdf

Vertigo
=======

Use of lights
=============

VASI/PAPI
=========

Helicopter Procedures at Night
==============================

Required equipment for night flight
-----------------------------------

TH-57 NATOPS 4.21:

1. All instrument and circuit breaker panel lights.
2. All exterior lights.
3. Operable communication radio.
4. Attitude gyro.
5. Radar altimeter.

Contact FTI Chapter 8:

Preflight/Taxiing for Takeoff
-----------------------------

- Same as day except will take longer.
- Use a white lensed flashlight due to hydraulic fluid and oil being colored.
- In addition to normal preflight, ensure the following are checked:
  - Exterior lights operational in all modes (e.g. position lights);
  - Landing light and search light (search light can be positioned);
  - All gauge and panel lighting with correct response to rheostat and
    bright/dim switch;
  - Cockpit lights;
  - Cleanliness of windows, especially front windscreen.

- Perform Instrument Checklist while taxiing for takeoff.

Vertical Takeoff/Landing
------------------------

- Shall be accomplished with search or landing light on.
- Pick reference points to the front and side prior to lifting due to lack of
  visual cues.
- Do not fixate on one point.

Landings (General)
------------------

- Use a specific group of lights to identify landing point.
- Search light or landing light shall be turned on by 200 ft AGL and remain on
  throughout landing evolution.
- If possible, all landings should be made to a hover to assess landing zone.
- Do not hesitate to waveoff if ground references are not acquired.

Hovering
--------

- Same technique as daytime with landing light on.
- Without aid of search light or landing light, anti-collision lights provide
  illumination.
  - Skid height can be determined by skid shadow size: larger shadow indicates
    further from ground.
- Reference points should be selected to front and side at varying distances.
- Avoid fixating on the runway centerline during takeoff to mitigate spacial
  disorientation.

Hover Taxi
----------

- All low work shall be conducted with the search or landing light on.
- Tendency is to hover too fast due to lack of visual cues.
- A reference must be made to the side to pick up taxi rate.
- If taxiing on a runway, runway lights and centerline provide good reference
  for rate.

Night Course Rules (South Whiting, Santa Rosa, Duke, Choctaw)
=============================================================

Emergency Procedures
====================

Contact FTI Chapter 809:

- Same as day except will normally take longer due to increase physiological
  stress and reduced vision.
- Know the location of everything in the cockpit to increase EP efficiency.
- Forced landings: use landing light and any power available to reduce descent
  rate to identify safe landing area.

Landing Site Evaluation at Night
================================

- Become familiar with the terrain you will be flying over.
- Use landing light to observe obstructions and select landing area.
-

Engine Failures at Night
========================
