% I3204 Brief Guide
% ENS Eric J. Mott
% April 4, 2017

Curriculum Basis: CNATRAINST 1542.156D

Acronyms and Short Hand Used in Document
----------------------------------------

- LOK: left outer knob.
- LIK: left inner knob.
- ROK: right outer knob.
- RIK: right inner knob.
- IAF: initial approach fix.

GPS Procedures
================

General
-------

[KLN 900 Pilot's Guide][1]:

Display:
- Normally broken into 5 sections: upper left and right, bottom left, right, and
  center.
- Bottom center section displays 4 types of information:
  1. GPS Mode (i.e. **ENR-LEG**, **OBS**, **APR** );
  2. **ENT** flashing when hitting the **ENT** button is necessary to complete
     an operation;
  3. **MSG** flashing when there is a message to be viewed;
  4. Status line message which is a short operational message that displays for
     ~5 s.

Knobs:
- Outer: think change page or move the cursor.
- Inner: think change sub-page or change characters (e.g. A, B, C, 1, 2, 3...).
- Right inner pulled out: think scan waypoints (e.g. fixes, airports, navaids,
  etc..)

Messages:
- View messages at your earliest opportunity because the unit may be alerting
  you to some condition of immediate concern to its condition or to your flight.
- Whenever a message condition exists which requires a specific action by you,
  the message prompt will remain on but not flashing.


[1]: https://www.bendixking.com/HWL/media/Pilot-Guides/006-08796-0000_2.pdf

Loading a New Approach or IAF:

Easiest way while using super NAV 5:
1. Rotate LOK one click counterclockwise to bring up the FPL 0 page.
2. Press the left **CRSR** button.
3. Rotate LOK to highlight the current approach header, which will automatically
   read **CHANGE APR?**
4. Press the **ENT** button, which will bring up the APT 8 page for the current
   airport.
5. Press the right **CRSR** button.
6. Rotate the ROK to select the desired new approach.
